biscuit 3.3 release post (#140)
biscuit-auth/website: content/blog/biscuit-3-3.md

The textual syntax for datalog has been updated in biscuit 3.3:

- sets are now delimited by `{}`
- strict equality tests are now denoted by `===` and `!==`

## Datalog improvements

### Arrays and maps / JSON support

Up until now biscuit datalog only had a single collection type: sets. Sets were quite restrictive (no nesting, homogeneous). This made impossible for a biscuit token to carry JSON for instance.

Biscuit 3.3 adds support for arrays, maps, and `null`, thus providing a way to embed arbitrary JSON values in a token.

```
payload({"key": ["value", true, null, {}]});
```

#### `null`

Arrays and map support `.get()`, so we needed a way to handle missing keys. Since biscuit datalog is untyped, `null` is an okay solution for this. `null` was also the last missing piece for JSON support.

```
check if [].get(0) == null;
```

#### Closures

With this new focus on collection types, we needed a way to express more things in the language. Datalog expressions follow a pure evaluation model, so mutability and loops were not available. Higher-order functions were thus the best way to work with collections.

> Arrays, sets and maps support `.any()` and `.all()`, taking a predicate. Closures are not first-class (meaning they cannot be manipulated like regular values), but can however be nested (to work with nested data types). Variable shadowing was not possible until then (since all variables could only be bound in the same scope, with predicates). Variable shadowing is now possible syntacticly, but explictly forbidden by the spec and rejected by implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arrays, sets and maps support `.any()` and `.all()`, taking a predicate. Closures are not first-class (meaning they cannot be manipulated like regular values), but can however be nested (to work with nested data types). Variable shadowing was not possible until then (since all variables could only be bound in the same scope, with predicates). Variable shadowing is now possible syntactically, but explicitely forbidden by the spec and rejected by implementations.
```

Author: (explicitly, not explicitely btw)

```biscuit
check if ["a","b","c"].any($x -> $x.starts_with("a"));
check if [1,2,3,4].all($x -> $x < 10);
```

### `reject if`

> `check if` (and `check all`) allow encoding rules that must match for authorization to success. Biscuit 3.3 adds `reject if`, a way to make authorization fail when a rule matches. This allows expressing something similar to `DENY` statements in AWS policies.

Reviewer 2: _s/success/succeed/_

The minor number is bumped when new features are added in a backward-compatible way (ie as long as you’re not using new features, you are compatible with older versions).

The patch number will be either for fixes in the spec or small changes that don’t affect the tokens themselves. As far as token compatibility is concerned, the patch number does not exist.

### Block version number

Datalog blocks carry an unsigned integer named `version`. This number is intended to declare the minimum version of the spec that is needed to correctly understand the block. For space efficiency reasons, it is encoded as a single unsigned integer, representing a `major.minor` spec version.

A block with version number `3` can only be understood by libraries with support for spec `v3.0` and higher, `4` requires `v3.1+`, `5` requires `v3.2+` and `6` requires `v3.3+`. This makes possible for libraries to reject tokens that rely on too recent features, instead of possibly mis-interpret a token.

Libraries are supposed to encode tokens with the smallest version number possible, in order to facilitate gradual migration.

### Signed block version number

> Starting with biscuit `v3.3`, the spec also defines a version number for the block signatures. This will allow improving signatures in a more graceful way.

Reviewer: redundant with above

Author: indeed
